### Routing between Networks

## The Need for Routing
# Dividing the Local Network
    Routing is the process of identifying the best path to a destination.
    A router is a networking device that connects multiple Layer 3, IP networks. At the distribution layer of the network, routers direct traffic and perform other functions critical to efficient network operations. Routers, like switches are able to decode and read the messages that are sent to them. Unlike switches, which make their forwarding decision based on the Layer 2 MAC address, routers make their forwarding decision based on the Layer 3 IP address.
    The packet format containst the IP addresses of the destination and source hosts, as well as the message data being sent between them. The router reads the network portion of the destination IP address and uses it to find which one of the attached networks is the best way to forward the message to the destination.
    Anytime the network portion of the IP addresses of the source and destination hosts do not match, a router must be used to forward the message. If a host located on the network 1.1.1.0 needs to send a message to a host on network 5.5.5.0, the host will forward the message to the router. The router receives the message, de-encapsulates the Ethernet Frame, and then reads the destination IP address in the IP packet. It then determines where to forward the message. It re-encapsulates the packet back into a new frame, and forwards the frame on to its destination.

# The Routing Table
    Routers move information between local and remote networks. Routers must first use routing tables to store information. Routing tables are not concerned with the addresses of individual hosts. Routing tables contain the addresses of networks, and the best path to reach those networks. Entries can be made to the routing table in two ways: dynamically updated by information received from other routers in the network, or manually entered by a network administrator. Routers use the routing tables to determine which interface to use to forward a message ot its intended destination.
    If the router cannot determine where to forward a message, it will drop it. Network administrators configure a static default route that is placed into the routing table so that a packet will not be dropped due to the destination network not being in the routing table. A default route is the interface through which the router forwards a packet containing an unknown destination IP network address. This default route usually connects to another router that can forward the packet towards its final destination network.

# The default gateway
    The method that a host uses to send messages to a destination on a remote network differs from the way a host sends messages on the same local network. When a host needs to send a message to another host located on the same network, it will forward the message directly. A host will use ARP to discover the MAC address of the destination host. The IPv4 packet contains the destination IPv4 address and encapsulates the packet into a frame containing the MAC address of the destination and forwards it out.
    When a host needs to send a message to a remote network, it must use the router. The host includes the IP address of the destination host within the packet just like before. However, when it encapsulates the packet into a frame, it uses the MAC address of the router as the destination for the frame. Hence, the router will receice and accept the frame based on the MAC address.
    
